---
layout: portfolio_entry
l_title: Designing JIMMY.
image: /img/JIMMY/JIMMY-B-0000-LOGO.png
title: JIMMY-B
image1: /img/JIMMY/Head_Overview_SMALLER.jpg
title1: Fully assembled
image2: /img/JIMMY/Leg_Assembly_1_SMALLER.jpg
title2: The wadling mechanism.
image3: /img/JIMMY/print_check.jpg
title3: Ensuring all parts can fit in the printer.
image4: /img/JIMMY/Top_Back_SMALLER.jpg
title4: An interesting arm drive.

---
<strong class="s_title">JIMMY - Your 3D Printed Friend</strong><br />
Intel approached our Mechanical Design class, ENGR3330, with an interesting proposition: design, and potentially build, a robot made from completely 3D printed parts. The intent of this project was to develop an affordable platform that would allow high school and college students the ability to use and interact bipedal robots in their studies and research, without requiring a massive budget. Intel provided the artistic inspiration, and our job was to design the linkages, drive mechanisms, and structures to make it happen. In addition, each team was assigned a target price point; for JIMMY-B this was roughly $1500 in parts, not counting material for the shell or electronics for controls. That meant we would lose a lot of articulation, and be limited to only two or three servo motors for actuation. The design was challenging - and at the mid-way point of development we needed to scrap everything and restart because we were not going to be able to make the robot function. Our team buckled down and worked like mad, finally developing a design we felt confident could be built and still met the price target. From this experience I gained a lot more experience in working with a large design team, getting creative with fasteners, and thinking through the user experience when assembling the robot.

