---
layout: portfolio_entry
l_title: REVO
image: /img/REVO/REVO_LOGO.png
title: REVO
image1: /img/REVO/E-BIKE.jpg
title1: Proud to ride our first vehicle - an electric bicycle.
image2: /img/REVO/E-KART.jpg
title2: Pedal down - rying to test the limit.
image3: /img/REVO/WELDING.jpg
title3: Welding the frame.
image4: /img/REVO/TEACHING.jpg
title4: Discussing suspension design

---
<strong class="s_title">Building an Electric Community</strong><br />
My passion for electric vehicles runs deep. During my first year of college I co-founded a team aptly named Research of Electric Vehicles at Olin (REVO), to gather like-minded individuals together to learn more about this emerging technology, and to inspire those unfamiliar with the concept. Throughout my time at Olin, REVO was a constant commitment, and through it I learned much, not just about electric vehicles and the unique challenges surrounding them, but also about leadership, finances, and team-building. REVO was my greatest source of joy and sorrow throughout my collegiate years; when members left because our projects could not leave the design phase due to lack of funding, or when we all missed one of the biggest parties of the year and stayed up all night to get an electric bicycle up and running. As my time at Olin progressed, so did the scale of projects that REVO took on. Having received a racing go-kart frame for free, we embarked on electrifying the kart with a ZERO powertrain we had been able to acquire for an amazing price. In the spring of 2014, the team decided to build an electric reverse trike from the ground up - suspension, frame, motor controller, communications, everything. The goal was to create a project that was affordable but also would expose newer members to a breadth of experiences, and could help establish a strong base for our future Formula SAE ambitions. In my final year, I worked on marketing and fundraising for the team, and gained some valuable lessons on branding, budgeting, and the small, but still useful, discounts of associated with being a collegiate team. Looking back I know that the experiences I gained throughout those four years were essential in defining the person I am today.


