---
layout: portfolio_entry
l_title: Cigar Box Guitar
image: /img/CBG/CBG_LOGO.png
title: Building a Cigar Box Guitar.
image1: /img/CBG/Full_Box.JPG
title1: Laser cut soundbox.
image2: /img/CBG/CHECK.PNG
title2: Laser cut check sheet.
image3: /img/CBG/TAIL_PIECE.PNG
title3: Tail piece to anchor strings.
image4: /img/CBG/IMGP7978.png
title4: A look at the tailpiece installed.

---
<strong class="s_title">Hand Made Cigar Box Guitar</strong><br />
Growing up I was always playing musical instruments. From the piano, to the violin, to the upright bass and guitar, doing homework and making music went hand in hand for me. Missing that dynamic, I decided instead of buying a cheap guitar I’d build one! Realizing the scale and complexity that building an actual acoustic guitar would be beyond what I could do while in school, I stumbled upon the cigar box guitar design and realized that this would be exactly what I wanted to build. Instead of using an actual cigar box for the body, I decided to make it out of some scrap plywood I found. The stain was a homebrew concoction of old Earl Grey tea, and a solution of rusty nails and vinegar. The neck is white oak, with a nicely polished fingerboard. I turned the strap brass button for the strap, as well as the tailpiece. Funny story with the tail piece - originally, the string were suppose to anchor to the rear piece of the cigar box body, but the tension of the strings when tuned was so great it tore the rear piece apart. Heartbroken, I nearly threw away the guitar, but after getting a scrap piece of 6061-T6 aluminum from a friend, I designed a piece that would slide on top and replicate the through holes. I milled it in an hour, and that night was strumming away!


